:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       8d83e3f9-80ca-4548-b6b9-b0583f815158
:END:
#+title: Org Roam Academic Workflow

* Test

So I use doom emacs, I have Org-Roam, Org-Roam-Bibtex and Org-Roam-Server
packages installed. I also have roam protocol enabled which allows me to caputre
webpages if I need them. I have the helm-bibtex package also enabled and
configured to read the bibtex file I generate from Zotero (where I store all my
papers) using better-bibtex extension. Lastly, I have org-noter package enabled.

My typical workflow is - use helm-bibtex to find the paper I want to take notes
on - hit `tab` hit `edit notes`. This opens up a capture template I have, which
automatically populates the Title, Author, Year etc + puts the file path to the
pdf in there.


Next I `M-x org-noter`, which opens up the PDF file, in a new buffer for me, and
I take notes on the pdf. I can use org-noter's capabilties to directly lift
sections of text, with location information (as in where the text is in the pdf,
super handy if you are tying to find exactly where a quote is from). After I am
done reading and taking notes on the paper, I add the relevant tags and
keywords. Moreover, I try to write a paragraph in my own words to encapsulate
the main ideas of the paper I read, and link it to other ideas I have read in
other works by using `org-roam-insert-note`. I also try to encapsulate any new
research ideas or questions this paper might have generated for me, or questions
for further inquiry.


If I come across a citation in a paper, that I think I should I tend to find
that paper and add it to my zotero, which automatically updates the citation
helm-bibtex database for me. I can always go and read and process that paper.


I have my org roam server usually on, so I can see the big clusters and ideas in
my knowledge graph. This allows me to actively think about making connections to
existing ideas and clusters while reading any new paper.
